# APP NAME

#### Q1: What are you planning to build?
We plan to build a product that makes tracking the progress and effectiveness of skin care products and treatments easier for end-users. Users will have access to an interface that allows them to journal their skin care journey through photos, rating systems, and text descriptions. They can then view aggregated analytics to visualize the progress they have made with a particular product or a particular skin care issue. Furthermore, users can edit the photos they take by increasing exposure or contrast, or by doodling on top of them in order to highlight important areas of concern. Finally, a key functionality is the ability to review the products they have been using, search for new products, and be presented with recommendations based on the products that they have enjoyed thus far. We are planning to build a native mobile application together with a web server to make it accessible from any android device that our user has. The goal is to make the process of tracking skin care easier, measurable and motivating, and providing feedback to the user so that they can achieve their skin care dreams.

#### Q2: Who are your target users?

Users who are motivated to keep track of their skin on a day-to-day basis, either because they have a severe skin issue that needs special treatment, or because they are passionate about developing better skin through their regular daily skin care routine. The user group is thus divide into two major types of users, those who are concerned with the progress brought upon by a particular product, or those who are concerned with the progress with a specific issue. Those for are concerned with a particular product will be benefitted by this system because they can determine if that product is working over the course of a few months. For example, those with skin pigmentation issues require a few months before any output can be seen on their skin as the progress is slow, and during this time they have to consistently use a singular product. Therefore, these users would be benefitted by being able to see a continuous progression through photos over a longer period of time. On the other hand, for certain users, they are more concerned about issues such as which toner works best for their skin. This is then a skin care issue, rather than a particular product, and these users require short term evaluation and comparison of multiple products all dealing with the same issue. Our application would provide an interface for both of these types of users, as they engage in their skin care products and/or issues on a day to day basis.

User Personas: In the following link you can find the user personas that we will have in mind when building our product
https://app.xtensio.com/folio/5mrkn2li

** Insert small explanation for personas

#### Q3: Why would your users choose your product? What are they using today to solve their problem?

Currently, most users who are trying to track their progress are using their cell phone cameras in order to take the photos, and separately writing out descriptions in note-taking apps. Even if they use an app such as EverNote in order to keep the photos and the text descriptions in the same place, EverNote and its equivalence were not designed of this purpose and do not allow for ease of use as far as the interface and functionality goes. And so, our niche of users are not being catered to through any traditional note taking app. Furthermore, a dedicated app meant to be purely for journalling could serve as motivation through reminders/notifications that are personalizable as far as frequency or timing goes.

There is one app with some similarity, called Skin Tracker that also provides a platform for users to write entries and take photos to keep track of their skin progress. However, this app is only available for iOS and costs $6.99. Therefore users who don't own an iPhone or don't want to shell out money are motivated to use our product. Furthermore, we provide progress analytics and photo editing capability, as well as product reviews and recommendations as functionality that expands the capabilities of our app and the increases the interest of the user. Another thing that sets us apart from the Skin Tracker app is that Skin Tracker emphasizes on the impact of food, stress, and emotions on the healing of skin diseases. Our app on the other hand highlights the use of skincare products and we will have features that allow people to see if a product is doing any good or is in fact harmful. So as much as we are tracking a person's skin, we will also be tracking the effectiveness of a user's skincare products/ skincare routine, something that Skin Tracker does not do.

A user who is determined to improve their skin care either through one long term treatment or through short usages of multiple products is already looking for this because they're already using some other application to fulfill their purpose. The problem is, whatever application they're using was not designed with them in mind. A user with eczema who needs to use specific products to find one that works for them, needs a way to keep track of which products are working and which aren't, and currently, they don't have an issue way to journal their process. The motivation to switch from their current method to our journalling app is that we will make it easier to keep track, we will provide objective analysis of progress based on their personal ratings, we will allow them to easily view their progress through the photos they took, and we will allow them to review the products that worked and the products that didn't so that they can contribute to a community of like-minded users looking to solve similar problems.
